[DOC-10862] Link and reference cleanup (#21)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/learn/pages/services-and-indexes/indexes/storage-modes.adoc

= Storage Settings
:description: All indexes in Couchbase Capella use the Couchbase Plasma storage engine. 
:page-topic-type: concept
:page-aliases: indexes:storage-modes,understanding-couchbase:services-and-indexes/indexes/storage-modes,architecture:index-storage

[abstract]
{description}

> 

Reviewer: Adding this back in because it applies to plasma indexes:

```suggestion

Couchbase Capella indexes implement multi-version concurrency control (MVCC) to provide consistent index scan results and high throughput.
```

[#standard-index-storage]

> == Standard Index Storage
> 
> In Couchbase Capella, _Standard_ is the storage-setting for Secondary Indexes: the indexes are saved on disk; in a disk-optimized format that uses both memory and disk for index-update and scanning.

Reviewer: Removing mention of "standard" storage, but leaving the anchor alone for cross-branch compatibility.

```suggestion
== Index Storage

In Couchbase Capella, indexes are saved on disk, in a disk-optimized format that uses both memory and disk for index-update and scanning.
```

Author: Yeah, I wasn't sure about mentioning "standard" storage at all. Thanks!

The performance of standard index storage depends on overall I/O performance.

> 

Reviewer: Might also be worth adding this paragraph back, in cut-down form?

```suggestion

Couchbase Capella index storage supports indexes for both Couchbase buckets and Memory-only buckets.
See xref:clusters:data-service/manage-buckets.adoc[Manage Buckets].

```

> The performance of standard index storage depends on overall I/O performance.
> 
> The standard global secondary index uses a B-Tree index and keeps the optimal working set of data in the buffer.
> This means the total size of the index can be much bigger than the amount of memory available in each index node.
> 
> Standard index-storage is supported by the _Plasma_ storage engine.

Reviewer: More editing to remove mention of "standard", because it's the only storage available

```suggestion
The performance of index storage depends on overall I/O performance.

The global secondary index uses a B-Tree index and keeps the optimal working set of data in the buffer.
This means the total size of the index can be much bigger than the amount of memory available in each index node.

Couchbase Capella index-storage is supported by the _Plasma_ storage engine.
```

Plasma is highly scalable and performant storage engine that is optimized specifically for indexes.
Compaction is handled automatically.

== Plasma Memory Enhancements

> Couchbase Server Version 7.1 provides the following enhancements for Plasma:

Reviewer: Update mention of Server

```suggestion
Couchbase Capella provides the following enhancements for Plasma:
```

* In-memory compression.

These are described below.

[#per-page-bloom-filters]
=== Per Page Bloom Filters

A https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloom_filter[Bloom filter^] gives guidance as to whether a searched-for item resides on disk.
By indicating that the item is _not_ on disk, the filter prevents unnecessary on-disk searches.

If Bloom filters are enabled (which is the default), when a lookup occurs, and the correct Plasma page is located, the Bloom filter indicates either that the item is _not_ on the page, or that it _may be_ on the page.
If the filter indicates that:

* The item is _not_ on the page, then the item is not on disk, and no disk read need occur.

* The item _may be_ on the page, then the item can continue to be searched for, and a disk read must therefore occur.

The consequent reduction in disk reads promotes the efficiency of mutation processing, when the mutations are insert heavy.

Bloom filters can be enabled or disabled by means of the Couchbase Web Console UI, or the REST API.
See the information provided on establishing xref:manage:manage-settings/general-settings.adoc[General] settings for the cluster.

=== In-Memory Compression

> In Couchbase Server Version 7.1, Plasma memory-management routinely performs the _compression_ of a subset of items, in order to free memory; and thereby, due to the additional memory made available, keep a greater number of items in memory overall.

Reviewer: Update mention of Server

```suggestion
In Couchbase Capella, Plasma memory-management routinely performs the _compression_ of a subset of items, in order to free memory; and thereby, due to the additional memory made available, keep a greater number of items in memory overall.
```
